# Task Manager App

A simple full-stack task manager application built with React and Python.  
Users can create, edit, delete, and mark tasks as completed. They can also reclassify completed tasks as pending once again. Tasks can be sorted/filtered by their completion status, that is, whether or not they are Pending or Completed. Users need to set a mandatory Task Title, and if they desire, can also set optional descriptions or due dates to their tasks. Tasks that are overdue will be marked as such.  

**NOTE: Deployment on railway was attempted, but my free trial ran out.

## Tech Stack

### Frontend
- React
- Vite
- CSS

### Backend
- Python
- FastAPI
- PostgreSQL, Supabase

## Prerequisites
The project assumes the following are already installed:
- `Node.js v22.15.1`
- `npm`
- `Python 3.11+`
- `pip`

## Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

If any error pops up, run:
`npm install react react-dom vite @vitejs/plugin-react`
and then `npm run dev` again.

Frontend runs on:

```bash
http://localhost:5173
```

## Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
python app.py
```

Backend runs on:

```bash
http://localhost:8000
```

## Database Initialization
The database is hosted on Supabase. To reproduce it, maintain the following instruction. The database in question contains one relation, namely "Tasks" with the following schema:

```
create table public."Tasks" (
  task_id bigint generated by default as identity not null,
  created_at timestamp with time zone not null default now(),
  updated_at timestamp with time zone null default now(),
  task_title character varying not null default ''::character varying,
  task_status character varying not null default 'PENDING'::character varying,
  task_desc character varying null,
  due_at timestamp with time zone null,
  constraint Tasks_pkey primary key (task_id)
) TABLESPACE pg_default;
```

However, as this is a demo, and it would be very tedious to build the supabase database again, I have shared the client side public key and url in the submission PDF. Place this in the `.env` file present in the `.\backend\` directory. The key and url are not secret as they would generally be visible through developer tools anyway. This does not violate the safe design metric, as the code utilizes environment variables. This measure was taken for convenience.

## Running the Application

1. Start the backend server
2. Start the frontend development server
3. Open the frontend URL in your browser
4. Enjoy! 3 sample tasks are already present as an example.

## Usage of LLM Note
Claude (Free) was used to generate boilerplate code for the front end. ChatGPT and Deepseek were used for troubleshooting a few errors and setting up this read me.
